user/admin.rst, before:

Administration
==============

You administer a forge through the Maestro user interface. This includes:

* General forge administration (health, backup & restore, :term:`take home`)
* Project administration
* Tool administration 
* User administration

.. note::
	Currently, the Maestro user interface is not completed. The configuration is done through a special project on Gerrit called :term:`forj-config`.

Pre-requisite
-------------

* Checking out the forj-config project
	Steps for how to checkout the forj-config project on a forge. Each forge has its own forj-config project. 
	The following steps can be used to checkout a project but before performing this action, make sure you ssh keys are added to the server. To approve a change, make sure your user account is a member of the forj-core group.

* Assigning someone to be a verifier for forj-config project
	When there is no jenkins/zuul functionality on the forj-config project, it's sometimes necessary to verify changes manually. This can be performed by updating the group membership for Continuous Integration Tools group in gerrit.


Projects
--------

Adding a new project in gerrit
******************************

* add an acl file (to the acls/production directory below) by using cookiecutter.config as an example found in the below path (i.e. make a copy)::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / files / gerrit / acls / templates /  cookiecutter.config

* place cookiecuttern.config in directory (projectname should match the name of the project): (note: change the 'cookiecutter-core' to whatever group name you would like to use in your project: example: my-new-proj1-core)::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / files / gerrit / acls / production / projectname.config

* to create project edit file::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / templates / gerrit / config / production / review.projects.yaml.erb

* push changes to your gerrit repo:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ git add <new-project-acl-file>
		$ git add review.projects.yaml.erb
		$ git commit -m "my new project"
		$ git push 

* To learn more on how to configure yaml, see `jeepb <http://ci.openstack.org/jeepyb.html>`_ docs.
* you can migrate public projects with the upstream option.
* Projects that are created in gerrit currently have no approach for deletion, but these can be removed from normal users view through acl changes. For more info, please refer to : `rename project <http://ci.openstack.org/gerrit.html#renaming-a-project>`_ or remove project


Adding a new jenkins job and configure Zuul for a given project in gerrit
*************************************************************************
Zull configuration consist of 4 basic parts.

1. update **site.pp** to include any new templates that will be used for the job

	* this is only needed if you need a new compiler option, or new tool that will not exist on the build server.

	* configure in the following section ci-node -> class cdk_project::jenkins -> job_builder_configs. 

	Example:

		.. sourcecode:: yaml

			class { cdk_project::jenkins:
				vhost_name                        => $node_vhost,
				jenkins_jobs_password             => ,        
				job_builder_configs               => [  'fortify-scan.yaml',
				                                       'pet-clinic.yaml',
				                                       'publish-to-stackato.yaml',
				                                       '<new_job_template_name>.yaml'
				                                     ],
			}

2. configure the new template into **runtime_project/templates/jenkins_job_builder/config/**

	* a pre-existing template file can be used to describe the builders for the job, or a new one can be created

	* pre-existing macros can be found in runtime_project/files/jenkins_job_builder/config/macros.yaml

3. update layout.yaml in **runtime_project/files/zuul/config/production/layout.yaml**

	* the projects section should be updated with the new project and gates, along with jobs that will be executed from projects.yaml, example:

	.. sourcecode:: yaml

		projects:
		 - name: pet-clinic
		   check:
		     - pet-clinic-maven-package
		     - pet-clinic-fortify-scan
		   gate:
		     - pet-clinic-maven-package
		     - pet-clinic-<new_job_name>
		   release:
		     - pet-clinic-publish-to-stackato


4. add the project section to **runtime_project/files/jenkins_job_builder/config/projects.yaml**

	* this will define the jobs to be created in jenkins, job names will be mapped to buiders by zuul. The name must match the job-template layout file (line 2 in the jenkins_job_builder folder).

	.. sourcecode:: yaml

		projects:
		   name: pet-clinic
		   branch: master
		   jobs:
		    - '{name}-maven-package'
		    - '{name}-fortify-scan'
		    - '{name}-publish-to-stackato'
		    - '{name}-<new_job_name>'

Once this is done, you will need to push the changes to gerrit, verify and submit. Next the eroplus box will need to run puppet cycle, or puppet agent -t to get the new runtime_project udpates. Finally the ci server will need to run a puppet cycle or puppet agent -t so that the job builder can setup the job.

.. Note:: More info on zuul: `http://wiki.cdkdev.org/w/index.php/Zuul <http://wiki.cdkdev.org/w/index.php/Zuul>`_


Remove a project in gerrit
**************************

* Stop gerrit:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ sudo service gerrit stop

* start the gsql client on local admin bash shell:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ java -jar /home/gerrit2/review_site/bin/gerrit.war gsql -d /home/gerrit2/review_site

* remove entries from table account_project_watches

	.. sourcecode:: sql

		select * from account_project_watches;
		delete from account_project_watches where project_name = 'pet-clinic-2'
		delete changes
		select * from changes where dest_project_name = 'pet-clinic-2';
		delete from changes where dest_project_name = 'pet-clinic-2';

* Remove the repo from disk.

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ rm -rf /var/lib/git/pet-clinic-2.git
		$ rm -rf /home/gerrit2/review_site/git/pet-clinic-2.git/

.. Note:: this should be done on all replicas

* Start gerrit back up

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ service gerrit start


Tools
-----
Documentation in progress.

Users
-----
Documentation in progress.

Commit message:

Adding the new parameter for the jenkins-job builder templates.
This new parameter is needed because the projects sometimes contains slash
characters on their names and the jobs in jenkins cannot be named like this.

Also renamed the pet-clininc project to tutorials

user/admin.rst, after:

Administration
==============

You administer a forge through the Maestro user interface. This includes:

* General forge administration (health, backup & restore, :term:`take home`)
* Project administration
* Tool administration 
* User administration

.. note::
	Currently, the Maestro user interface is not completed. The configuration is done through a special project on Gerrit called :term:`forj-config`.

Pre-requisite
-------------

* Checking out the forj-config project
	Steps for how to checkout the forj-config project on a forge. Each forge has its own forj-config project. 
	The following steps can be used to checkout a project but before performing this action, make sure you ssh keys are added to the server. To approve a change, make sure your user account is a member of the forj-core group.

* Assigning someone to be a verifier for forj-config project
	When there is no jenkins/zuul functionality on the forj-config project, it's sometimes necessary to verify changes manually. This can be performed by updating the group membership for Continuous Integration Tools group in gerrit.


Projects
--------

Adding a new project in gerrit
******************************

* add an acl file (to the acls/production directory below) by using cookiecutter.config as an example found in the below path (i.e. make a copy)::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / files / gerrit / acls / templates /  cookiecutter.config

* place cookiecuttern.config in directory (projectname should match the name of the project): (note: change the 'cookiecutter-core' to whatever group name you would like to use in your project: example: my-new-proj1-core)::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / files / gerrit / acls / production / projectname.config

* to create project edit file::

	[forj-config.git] / modules / runtime_project / templates / gerrit / config / production / review.projects.yaml.erb

* push changes to your gerrit repo:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ git add <new-project-acl-file>
		$ git add review.projects.yaml.erb
		$ git commit -m "my new project"
		$ git push 

* To learn more on how to configure yaml, see `jeepb <http://ci.openstack.org/jeepyb.html>`_ docs.
* you can migrate public projects with the upstream option.
* Projects that are created in gerrit currently have no approach for deletion, but these can be removed from normal users view through acl changes. For more info, please refer to : `rename project <http://ci.openstack.org/gerrit.html#renaming-a-project>`_ or remove project


Adding a new jenkins job and configure Zuul for a given project in gerrit
*************************************************************************
Zull configuration consist of 4 basic parts.

1. update **hieradata** to include any new templates that will be used for the job in **runtime_project/files/hiera/hieradata/Debian/nodetype/ci.yaml**

	* this is only needed if you need a new compiler option, or new tool that will not exist on the build server.

	* configure in the following section ci-node -> class cdk_project::jenkins -> job_builder_configs. 

	Example:

		.. sourcecode:: yaml

			cdk_project::jenkins::job_builder_configs:
				- 'fortify-scan.yaml'
				- 'tutorials.yaml'
				- 'publish-to-stackato.yaml'
				- '<new_job_template_name>.yaml'

2. configure the new template into **runtime_project/templates/jenkins_job_builder/config/**

	* a pre-existing template file can be used to describe the builders for the job, or a new one can be created

	* pre-existing macros can be found in runtime_project/files/jenkins_job_builder/config/macros.yaml

3. update layout.yaml in **runtime_project/files/zuul/config/production/layout.yaml**

	* the projects section should be updated with the new project and gates, along with jobs that will be executed from projects.yaml, example:

	.. sourcecode:: yaml

		projects:
		 - name: tutorials
		   check:
		     - tutorials-maven-package
		     - tutorials-fortify-scan
		   gate:
		     - tutorials-maven-package
		     - tutorials-<new_job_name>
		   release:
		     - tutorials-publish-to-stackato


4. add the project section to **runtime_project/files/jenkins_job_builder/config/projects.yaml**

	* this will define the jobs to be created in jenkins, job names will be mapped to buiders by zuul. The "name" must match the job-template layout file (line 2 in the jenkins_job_builder file), and the "git_project" must match with the name of your project in gerrit.

	.. sourcecode:: yaml

		projects:
		   name: tutorials
		   git_project: tutorials
		   branch: master
		   jobs:
		    - '{name}-maven-package'
		    - '{name}-fortify-scan'
		    - '{name}-publish-to-stackato'
		    - '{name}-<new_job_name>'

Once this is done, you will need to push the changes to gerrit, verify and submit. Next the eroplus box will need to run puppet cycle, or puppet agent -t to get the new runtime_project udpates. Finally the ci server will need to run a puppet cycle or puppet agent -t so that the job builder can setup the job.

.. Note:: More info on zuul: `http://wiki.cdkdev.org/w/index.php/Zuul <http://wiki.cdkdev.org/w/index.php/Zuul>`_


Remove a project in gerrit
**************************

* Stop gerrit:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ sudo service gerrit stop

* start the gsql client on local admin bash shell:

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ java -jar /home/gerrit2/review_site/bin/gerrit.war gsql -d /home/gerrit2/review_site

* remove entries from table account_project_watches

	.. sourcecode:: sql

		select * from account_project_watches;
		delete from account_project_watches where project_name = 'tutorials-2'
		delete changes
		select * from changes where dest_project_name = 'tutorials-2';
		delete from changes where dest_project_name = 'tutorials-2';

* Remove the repo from disk.

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ rm -rf /var/lib/git/tutorials-2.git
		$ rm -rf /home/gerrit2/review_site/git/tutorials-2.git/

.. Note:: this should be done on all replicas

* Start gerrit back up

	.. sourcecode:: console

		$ service gerrit start


Tools
-----
Documentation in progress.

Users
-----
Documentation in progress.
